Jerome, Gerald, and Joan sat at a small table,
 with mugs of ale, cups of water, and stout tumblers of stronger liquor arrayed before each of them.
Millie, proprietor of the village public house, stood at the ready behind the bar.
She would occasionally eye the stew simmering in a great black bot at the hearth, stir and taste it,
 and add what seasoning was evidently missing.

In Jerome's opinion, she was the perfect tavernkeeper.
She would arrive with a fresh beverage just as he finished one off.
She didn't interpose herself into their conversation,
 but was delightfully quick witted when the trio had addressed her directly.

More's the pity, Jerome thought, that they made a terrible audience.
Her humor yielded only brittle laughter from the group.
The were, after all, hardly making merry.
Roughly an hour ago, Gerald and Jerome had lifted the cold, stiff form of Belen from their cart and laid him
 in the bed of one of the two back rooms.
[[ bindings, rag doll
Since then, they had made a pitiful attempt at conversation and had made an aggressive go at becoming seriously,
 wonderfully intoxicated.

Their chatter once again sputtered to a heavy, anticipatory silence.
Jerome lifted his mug to his lips and finished of his... fifth ale?  Sixth?
As he lowered the mug to the table, a hearthfire log popped, startling him.
He brought his mug down clumsily, knocking his cup of water noisily over.
Millie whisked the towel from her belt as she deposited a freshly filled mug of ale on the table,
 quickly collecting the spill before it could run off the tabletop.

"Sorry," mumbled Jerome.
His face burned with embarrassment, though his face was also flush from drink.
Maybe Millie wouldn't notice how red he was.
The rational part of Jerome's mind pointed out that his head was wading,
 which is quite often the precursor to swimming.
The less rational part of Jerome's mind watch Millie's strong arms move the towel over the table's surface.
The motion of her was hypnotic.

Jerome eventually realized he was staring.
"Sorry," he mumbled again.
He was sure, this time, that he must have shaded into a deeper red.

"No harm done, love," assured Millie.
She squeezed his arm.
"Now, if you'd spilled the shine, I'd have to have it out of you in hard work."

Gerald snorted.
"Good luck, missy.
Natural born tradesman, he is, which makes 'im good for nothin' more exhausting than pickin' up and countin' coin."

"Oh, now, I don't know," Millie drawled.
"I'm sure I could find some use for him."
She swept the towel over her shoulder.
The motion distracted him, but... had she winked at him?
Neither Gerald nor Joan reacted, so probably not.
Then again, both had already returned to staring at the middle distance, studiously drinking.

The silence returned as Millie withdrew.
Jerome could hardly stand it, but experience had taught him that Gerald would crack before he did.
Any second now, Gerald would abruptly ask the question, direct and without tact, that was on both of their minds.
He just had to wait a little longer.
And in the meantime, he could hopefully convince the table to stop swaying...

"Well," Joan croaked.
She cleared her throat into a fist.
"I do b'lieve I'm well and true drunk now.
And if I don't do this now, I may not be able 'fore much longer."
She shook her head as though to clear it.

"I imagine you're curious," she continued, "as to why a corpse is laid out in a bed I promised was for you."
She said it almost casually, as if it were some puzzle she was giving them to tease out.

Gerald stared into the mug he held in two hands.
"That's a good one, for a start."

"Well, you didn't believe me when I first tole you about the Ragged Witch.
So you two, sittin' there," she said, poking a wobbly finger to encompass both of them,
 "just think on how wrong you was about that.
Maybe think twice about what I'm tellin' ya."

She took a deep breath, held it, and let it out in a heavy sigh.
"First off, that boy ain't dead."
Gerald took a breath to reply, but Joan held up a finger.
"Shush, you.  I can do this, too.
What?  You'll say he was cold to the touch.  Yeah, he was at that.
You'll say you didn't feel his heartbeat.  Aye, that's 'cause it ain't there.
You'll say you've seen dead men afore, and he fit the measure.
Well, I've seen what the Witch does afore, and he fits that measure better."
She met Gerald's eye.
"Now tell me."  Clipping each word, she asked, "Have I missed my mark?"

Gerald looked as though he might say something yet, but thought better of it.
He put his hands up in surrender.
"No.
That boy ain't dead.
In a week or so, he'll be right as rain."
Her face turned sour.
She poured herself another tumbler of moonshine and shot it off.
"No.
Not right.
But he'll be alive all the same.

"She does it to mock us.
When I was lil', my ma tole me they'd burn 'em what was stuffed by the Witch.
Everything, just a stiff body straight to the pyre, right as they was found, sometime right where they was found.
No sense in draggin' somethin' cursed back into town.

"When I was a lil' older, the miller's boy got stuffed.
His mam was in hysterics for days.
Wouldn't let anyone near her boy, wouldn't burn the body herself.
Everyone figured they could wait her out.
She'd pass out eventually."
Her eyes looked somewhere far from the here and now.
"Four days she stayed at her boy's side, shoutin' and bawlin' and scratchin' at anyone who came near.
She eventually slumped down in the corner of the room, delirious but still there.
My da was the one who came in to take the body.

"Four days since they'd found the body.
Hot, summer days.
And when my da went to lift the body, he noticed it were still fresh.
Not a spot of rot or bloat."

Joan took a long pull from her mug.
"Well, da were startled, to be sure.
He couldn't do it.
He couldn't burn a fresh boy.
But he took that maumet she ties to 'em, and he tossed that in the fire.

"I still remember the smell.
Soon as them rags hit the fire, the boy crackled and burned his own self.
It were so...
He looked fine.
An' then he turned back, and then to ash, and then..."

"Well, we 'ventually realized burning the rag dolls burns the body.
After some long and loud talks, we just let one sit.
We left 'im in the back fo the church.
The priest would check ev'ryday for rot, for anything, but the body just sat there."

"And then after a dozen days, they came back.
For all we could tell, he was jus' the same.
Didn't 'member nothin'.
He said he remembered stalkin' a deer, crossin' the rag line.
The Witch appeared, and she bound his feet and bound his hands.
He said she covered his eyes and stuffed his mouth.
He remembered her choking the life out of him.
And then he woke up, there in the church.
He said it were like a dream."

Joan drank again.
Moments slipped past, but Gerald spoke before the silence grew again uncomfortable.
"That's it?
She jus' knocks 'em unconscious for a few days?
That don't seem so bad."

Joan looked at him with... pity?
"What would you do, hmm?
If the boy in the back there, the one you was so sure was dead and gone,
 if'n he walked out here right now, sat down, and asked for some stew?

"When Ril came back, no one knew what to do with 'im.
Ev'ryone figgered he was back luck.
Cursed.
I s'pose he 'ventually came to think of hisself such."
She finished her mug, waving Millie off as she did.
"Rin lasted two months.
That's about a month more'n most.
He hung himself just this side of the rag line."

She sighed.
"Belen's a good enough lad, but he's done for out here.
No one'll ever look at him the same.
Maybe we'll convince 'im to pick up, move to the city, shuffle over to another village.
Gods, I hope he does.
Otherwise, I 'spect I'll be cuttin' him down from a tree before the season's out."

Millie came by with a fresh ewer of water and bowls of stew for each of them.
She cleared dirty dishes.
All of them ate in silence.