Jerome tied the last knot securing the tarpaulin over the wagon and smiled, satisfied with a simple job nevertheless done well.
Gerald, frowning and watching scrutenously, grunted sharply and nodded once before turning away.
The apprentice had long ago learned that this was as high of praise as he could ever expect from the trade-master.
Jerome's smile grew, ever so slightly.

The apprentice followed his master's gaze.
The mayor of this hamlet, if such a title had any real meaning in such a place, was coming down the road, presumably to see them off.
It was not uncommon, particularly when someone with the means wanted to buy one last luxury, or perhaps wished to purchase an item quietly and privately.

"Ho there!" greeted the stern-looking but, in Jerome's brief interactions, friendly old woman.
Gerald, true to form, nodded with a more gentle grunt.
She eyed the wagon.
"Leaving already?  You've only just arrived yesterday morning!
I'd thought, or at least hoped, you might stay another night or two."

Gerald sighed.
Jerome had watched Gerald have this conversation several times before.
"Lovely though your town is, ma'am, we're tradefolk.
What trade there is to do here, we've already done.
I've met everyone in this town that has money to spend or good to barter.
No sale waits for us in the morning.
So we're off tonight.
We'll arrive in the next hamlet just before midday, do a day or two worth of trade, and continue on once the trading is done.
That's the life of a tradesman.
No one trades at night, least not for what we have on offer, so night's the best time to put some miles under us."

The mayor drew a breath to speak, but Gerald held up a hand to forestall her.
"Now I know what you mean to say.
'It's not safe to ride these woods at night.'
Well, that may be true, but it'll be no safer in the day.
We've got our guardsman," he said, motioning to where Derek stood stringing his longbow.
"Bandits or wolves come near, they'll see how fine a shot that man is, and then they'll see nothin' at all.
We've got glowglobes to light our way, so we'll not lose a wheel in a ditch and our horse won't turn a hoof."
He raised his eyebrows, asking for contradiction.
"Have I missed my mark?"

Jerome could see the woman weigh her words.
"Yes and no.
You're right in that I came to warn you.
These woods aren't save to travel at night.
But beasts and ruffians aren't the worry.
Not if you mean to leave by the northern road."
She lowered her voice, but Jerome couldn't tell if she'd done so knowingly.
"The Ragged Witch lives in the woods to the north."

Jerome sighed inwardly.
It wasn't that the poor woman didn't appear to be wholly earnest in her word of warning.
But Jerome had seen enough of the kingdom to know the truth.
Everywhere he'd been had its own variation of folklore, but the stories were all the same.
You could almost read it like a map.
The farther west you went, hair shaded darker, women became taller, men became thicker, both spoke with tall and tight vowels, but folk were still just folk.
The stories were the same.
The witch in the north -- and it was, without fail, to the north -- sat waiting for snare passerby.
Sometimes she lured them deep into the woods to feed to her cats.
Sometimes she ate them herself.
Once, he'd heard of a dear woman who raised orphans, only to feed them to her own vile gods just before they came of age.
They'd been working their way west along the northern edge of the kingdom, and he'd been hearing the variations on "the Ragged Witch" for over a month.

Gerald did a fair impression of considering her words and the threat they represented, but Jerome knew him too well by now to be taken in.
Gerald would let the customer believe he believed their story before making a counteroffer.
He sucked a breath through his teeth.
"Don't think we don't appreciate your concern, ma'am, 'cause we surely do.
And we think better of you still for coming down here yourself to tell us.
But best, to my mind, would be a word of advice on how to keep safer while we travel your tricky neck of the woods, 'cause we really must make our way.
As I said, we're tradefolk.
Our margins are thin enough as it is, and my guardsman gets paid by the day whether we make a profit or not.
You might think us brash, but if it's a choice between your rag witch and starving this winter, well, we'll risk your witch."

"I'll pay you," the mayor said flatly.

Gerald paused, caught off guard.  "Your pardon?"

"I'll pay you," she repeated.
"Whatever your man charges, whatever trade you believe you'll lose in exchange for a decent night's sleep, I'll pay.
I've already arranged two rooms for you at the public house.
I'll even have Millie draw you a bath, if you like.
But I will not have your lives on my conscience just because I couldn't convince you I'm not a daft, superstitious ninny.
You've done this town a good turn, and you deserve better than to be found with a mouthful of cloth."

Gerald and Jerome were both dumbstruck by the woman's offer.
Jerome suspected that she didn't have a realistic idea of what a day's wages were for the three of them.
True, the hamlets were only a few gold between the real profits of the cities, but even here they would expect to make anywhere between three and five golden crowns.

"That's... My..." stammered Gerald.
"I've never been offered a full dozen crowns just to cool my heels."
Waukeen bless that man, even now angling to pull in as much coin as possible.
"But, we couldn't possibly... With everything else, we couldn't accept any more'n six.
Even that --"

A cry from down the road interrupted Gerald's expert performance.
"Elder Joan!
Gods, elder Joan, help us!"
All eyes turned to three young men carrying the stiff body of a fourth awkwardly between them.

"Merciful Pelor," the mayor cried.  "What have you done?!"
The boys stuttered to a halt, lowering the body roughly to the ground.
Jerome could see some sort pendant tied tightly around the body's neck, but when the others stood they blocked his view.

Joan asked again, clipping every word.
"What have you done?"

One of the boys swallowed.
"We were just out.
Walking.
And... and we wound up near the rag line.
And, well, we horsin' around, and I guess Belen slipped..."
Joan slapped the boy hard enough the bring water to Jerome's eyes.
She took a step forward and slapped each other boy in turn, both boys too stunned to even pull away from the blow.

She looked at each boy in turn.
Jerome expected a scolding of epic proportions, but Joan spoke very quietly.
"You boys allowed this to happen.
You never forget this.
You warn others about the rag line.
Now go tell your mothers what you've done.
I'll deal with Bel."

Joan deflated.
"Would you mind giving me a hand?
We'll need to take Belen down to Millie's.
He'll have to take one of the beds I promised you.
But if you've room on the cart, it'll save us some time."

Breathless, Gerlad stepped forward, chucking Jerome on the shoulder to move him forward.
Just before the boy's body, he paused and turned to Joan.
He held out his hand to shake.
In a numb voice, he said "Six crowns."

Joan stared at Gerald and burst out laughing.
"Sure, tradesman.  Sure.
Half a dozen crowns, and we'll throw in an object lesson for free."

Jerome just stared, dumbstruck.
Five years apprenticed to Gerald, and still the master taught him the art of the bargain.
Gerald always made the deal.

--------------------

[[ Rag Doll around his neck
[[ -- We used to burn them
[[ Gerald always makes the deal


--------------------

Meryl sipped her tea.
Some mornings, like this one, she could believe the woods were peaceful.
The sun shone pleasantly on her small garden